All right guys in this video we're going to style some menus so we're going to create verticals like
side menu and then also a navigation bar that goes horizontal so create let's create a new file called
0 9 underscore menus dot each team L and for the title I'm just going to say menu styling let's add
in our style tags and for the markup we just want to add a U L and I'm gonna give it a class of side
menu.
Ok we're gonna have a list item with a link inside of it doesn't matter where it goes.
And then let's just say home for the text and then we'll copy this down a few times.
And this one will be about.
This will be services and this will be contact.
OK let's save that.
Open it up.
And there we go.
Looks horrendous.
First thing I'm going to do is for the body I'm just going to change the font family to do aerial.
And next thing we want to target the side menu which is the UL and I want to get rid of the bullets
because by default you always have these these disk bullets.
Now you can get rid of these within the well or within the list item with the list style property and
we want to set that to none.
So we'll save that.
That gets rid of them.
See we also the aerial font.
Next thing I want to do is add a border around the whole you well so we'll say border and let's set
it to one pixel.
I want to do a light grey so I'm going to do DDD and let's do solid save that.
Good.
Let's do a border radius just to add a slight curve.
We'll do 10 pixels and let's set a width of 300 pixels kind of shorten and a little bit and let's set
the padding now by default unordered list have 40 pixels padding on the left as you can see that's pushed
over.
So doing padding 20 pixels on all sides is going to overwrite that.
So if I save that you can see now we have 20 pixels on all sides.
And then I think yeah I think that's all I want to do for the well.
So now we're going to focus on the list items themselves so side not slide side menu list items and
we want to set the font size a little bigger by default at 16 we're gonna set it to 18.
I think I have this zoomed in.
Let me just see real quick.
Yes.
So that's that's normal that's 100 percent.
So Font size 18 I also want them spread apart quite a bit.
So I'm going to use line height and set it to two point four m save that and it's going to spread them
apart.
Let's see what else do we want.
Here.
Let's do a border bottom on each one
and I'm going to do dotted for the style one pixel and the same color as the the well border.
So you can see that each one now has this this bottom border.
Now one thing I want to show you is that the borders are.
I put them here to separate the links and we don't need the last one under contact.
So we can actually use a pseudo pseudo selector called Last Child to target the last list item.
So let's say it's a side menu.
Ally colon last dash child.
OK.
And we'll get into some of the other pseudo selectors later on we can select the first one we can select
anything in the middle we can do like all the even all the odd and it's pretty powerful but just for
now we're going to use last child and set border to none and save and now the last link here or the
last list item doesn't have a border.
So for the the styling of the the actual links the colour and the underline we have to target the eight
tags.
So let's do side menu list item a.
And change the color to 3 3 3.
Let's get rid of the underline with text decoration none.
Save that and for the hover right now it doesn't change at all.
So I want to actually change the color for that so let's say side and on the why keep doing soft slide.
Let's do ally a colon hover and let's change the color to coral.
So now when I hover over a link it turns into the Coral color.
All right.
So I think that that's pretty much it.
It's not the best looking menu but it looks a lot better than the standard unordered list.
So now we're gonna move on to the navigation menu.
So I'm just going to put a comment right here.
Which side menu
and down here.
Let's just copy this up so I'm going to do shift option up.
And this one I'm going to change the class to nav bar and let's just put a couple line breaks in between
these two to kind of just separate them a little bit.
All right.
So this is our nav bar so we want this to be to go straight across and we want these links or the list
items to float.
So let's go under.
Actually we'll go above.
Since now bars at the top.
All right.
So we want to target the well which is called nav bar.
And the first thing I want to do is remove the list the bullet.
So we're gonna say list style.
None.
OK.
Now I want to take away all the margin and all the padding
save that.
Good.
Let's see.
Next thing we want to do is add the background.
I'm going to use that Facebook style blue which is for c 6 C a 0 K will save that let's add board a
radius of five pixels OK.
Now I'm gonna go down here and we're gonna say nav bar list item and we want to float these because
we want them to be side by side.
We don't want them to go down.
We don't want them to be vertical so let's float all of the list items to the left.
So they're kind of just stack side by side.
So I'll save that.
And it happened they float they float now to the left but the background is now gone since we floated
it.
It kind of just kind of collapse the background.
So the way that we can fix this is go to the nav bar that the parent element and we want to add in overflow
and set that to auto and save.
And now we get the background back.
All right.
Because now the background is going to basically pertain to whatever content is inside of it and you
can set this to hidden as well.
If you have some some content that goes outside of the element and it has a scroll bar and lets say
you don't want that scroll bar there you can set overflow to hidden and I'm sure we'll run into that
later.
But now that we have the background let's start to style the links.
So we want to say nav bar ally a.
And change the color to white.
You will take away the underline
save that.
And we want to display his block.
It's actually it's actually move this up to the top.
OK.
Now since we display block we we can add some padding and it's going to actually it's going to give
us some space on the top bottom here.
Also space in between all of the links.
So let's say for each link we want some padding.
We want to do 15 on the top and bottom and we want to do 20.
On the left and right.
So let's save that.
And there we go.
So it kind of filled out the wrapper that the nav bar.
Well all right.
So that looks pretty good.
Let's make it so that when we hover over a link the background changes color.
So I'm just going to make it a slightly darker than the blue it already is.
So let's say nav bar
the state I'm a hover and we're going to do a background
color and that's going to be let's see what is that going to be 4 4 6 1 9 0 which is slightly darker.
We can also change the color of the tax.
We'll just do like a light gray slight change.
So now if we go up and we hover you'll see that it changes the background and it takes up the whole
the whole area of the link.
Now sometimes you might see people put the padding on the list item but that's not really a good idea
especially if you want to have the hover state take up the whole thing like this.
Otherwise it would just take up like a square around it which doesn't look very good and you know you'll
see different ways to create nav bars I think that this specific CSX is probably the easiest to do this
and you'll see if I make this bigger it just stretches along if I make it really small.
Well actually we don't have enough links here.
But if we had more links it would just knock on to the next line which doesn't look very good.
So later on I'm going to show you how to create a more responsive nav bar where it will kind of you
know when you get to a certain screen size like like for a smartphone they'll actually switch to going
this way.
It'll look nice and neat centred and stuff like that.
All right.
So next I quickly want to look at the display properties UCLA did display block here.
We can change in line to block in and vice versa.
There's also something called inline block.
So we're going to we're going to take a look at that in the next video.